{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
TetraDENSITY 2.0: FAIR Principles and Ethical Overview
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
TetraDENSITY 2.0 is a comprehensive and significantly expanded database of global tetrapod population density estimates, now encompassing over 54,300 records for 3,717 species, including terrestrial and marine taxa. The dataset serves as a critical resource for understanding biodiversity patterns and informing conservation strategies.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
Alignment with FAIR Principles
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 TetraDENSITY 2.0 adheres strongly to the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) principles:
\f1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Findability:
\f2\b0 \'a0The dataset is accessible through a DOI on Figshare, linked to a peer-reviewed open-access publication. Accompanying metadata ensure precise navigation and understanding of the data.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Accessibility:
\f2\b0 \'a0Both the dataset and metadata are freely available under a CC BY 4.0 license, allowing unrestricted public access and adaptability, provided proper attribution is given.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Interoperability:
\f2\b0 \'a0Data are provided in an open format (.csv) and use standardized taxonomic classifications aligned with the Catalogue of Life, facilitating integration with other datasets and research platforms.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reusability:
\f2\b0 \'a0Detailed metadata, including variable descriptions and source references, enhance the dataset\'92s utility for diverse research applications. The documentation of methodological approaches and error margins further supports meta-analytical use.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
Ethical and Methodological Considerations
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 The dataset was compiled with ethical rigor, ensuring respect for intellectual property through comprehensive acknowledgments of original sources and collaborative efforts to fill data gaps. Efforts to minimize biases included incorporating estimates from diverse sources, such as non-English publications and unpublished technical reports, and conducting targeted searches in underrepresented regions and languages. However, geographic, taxonomic, and publication biases persist due to disparities in research funding, accessibility challenges for historical studies, and regional variations in research effort.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 Data quality was maintained through rigorous validation checks, including comparisons of body mass-density relationships and cross-verification of geographic coordinates. These measures ensured reliability while addressing potential errors. The database also provides transparency about its biases and limitations, enabling users to apply the data responsibly.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
Conclusion
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 TetraDENSITY 2.0 exemplifies the application of FAIR principles, promoting open access and ethical standards in biodiversity research. While acknowledging inherent biases, the dataset offers an invaluable tool for ecological and conservation studies, fostering global collaboration and continuous improvement.
\f1 \
}